# Modularity in Technology
Dictionary.com defines modularity as having the property of being composed of "individually distinct functional units". For computer scientists, this simply means that the software is being developed in modules, interconnecting to work together and serve a single purpose. These modules need not be developed by the same team, and may instead be developed by groups of people who know nothing of each other's existence. Modularity allows developers to focus on one small portion of software and refine it until it performs its function excellently. This modular approach allows modules to be reusable, which cut down on costs and time. However, modularity may introduce a slight added complexity overall, but its benefits greatly outweigh its costs, not only in individual complexity but in sustainability, progressivity, and reusability as a whole.

**Costs and economic benefits**
Modularity also has time and cost savings for physical technologies. NASA developed modular robots for remote use and noted that “[t]he standardized modules would decrease the cost of a new robotic manipulator and eliminate the possibility of obsolescence” (mod in robots). Their modular design was cheaper than their previous integrated design because it could be easily hot-swapped when it needed maintenance or when it needed to be upgraded. This modular system in their robots also allowed for faster iterations in design, allowing them to save money on development costs. Another thing NASA noticed about modular systems is that “Failure in a robotic system might mean the high cost of total replacement. This maintenance objective would best be met by using robots made up of modules which could be easily replaced” (mod in robots). Modular systems are quite easily hot-swappable and upgradable, which greatly decreases their maintenance costs. The hot-swappable portion of it not only allows for cheaper replacements due to less work being needed to install it, but also allows them to be upgraded on the fly, decreasing maintenance costs. Although hot-swappability is not necessarily encompassed by modularity, it is one of the byproducts of properly done modularization. “When IBM employed this approach [of modularity] and also made the new systems compatible with existing software (by adding “emulator” modules), the result was a huge commercial and financial success for the company and its customers” (man in age). The modular design of IBM's systems not only allowed them to add emulator modules, but allowed them to see real financial benefit. On the software side of modularity, a similar trend can be seen. In an international conference on IT, it was said that "The usage of the modern object-oriented software architectures and modularity as concept in the information technology industry is inevitable due to the great cost cut advantages" (teach mod software). The cost benefits of such modularization in software is so easily seen that it is being taken as a granted these days. Modularization of software also allows for all the same benefits as those in hardware, of hot-swappability and easier maintainence. Even statistically it has been proven to be effective in a business. On a statistical study performed on the causation of modularity and business performance it was said that "we found support for the hypotheses [that modularity leads to greater business performance], with additional presence of mediation. Although some relationships showed weak significance levels, nonetheless the sign indicated directional support [of modularity leading to business performance]" (mod, info tech). Just the fact of being modular allows these benefits of hot-swappability, decreased costs all around, and greater business effeciency and performance.

**Added complexity, although also reduced complexity**
It may be argued that modularity is just adding to the problem of overall project complexity, and although it may be true that it overall complicated the project, it simultaneously reduces the complexity for each team working on the project. Being modular, each team need only focus on their own system and making it perform as intended, they do not need to worry about how it will interact with the system as a whole because of its modular status. In the Harvard Business Review, Baldwin stated that, “Modularity has enabled companies to handle this increasingly complex technology” (man in age). Each person working on any such complex technology manages much less complexity because they only work on their individual section. This style of managing complexity allows teams of people to undertake larger, complex projects by splitting up the complexity into smaller, bite sized projects. These benefits of smaller complexity on the individual comes at the cost of a more complicated system overall. As said by Baldwin and Clark:

> If modularity brings so many advantages, why aren’t all products (and processes) fully modular? It turns out that modular systems are much more difficult to design than comparable interconnected systems. The designers of modular systems must know a great deal about the inner workings of the overall product or process in order to develop the visible design rules necessary to make the modules function as a whole. They have to specify those rules in advance. And while designs at the modular level are proceeding independently, it may seem that all is going well; problems with incomplete or imperfect modularization tend to appear only when the modules come together and work poorly as an integrated whole. (man in age)

The process to initially create a modular system may be quite complex. However, once it has been laid out, it becomes trivially complicated in comparison, as it has now been modularized into multiple small uncomplex issues. In comparison to an integrated system, once you have set it up, it still is one large complex issue as a whole. Every team member needs to understand the system as a whole in order to properly develop it, as contrasted to only the initial starters of a modular project.

**Maintainability**

Another great call for modularity is in the maintainability of such systems. With the example of NASA's robots again, modularity allowed these robots to be easily transportable, quickly assembled, and easily repaired and upgraded (mod in robots). The modularity of systems allows it to be easily disassembled into smaller modules, facilitating transportability and reassembly. On top of being easy to repair, “a decomposable system may be able to limp along even if some subsystems are damaged or incomplete” (mod in tech). Modular systems tend to be more robust and resistent to damage. Since each module relies on each other yet are able to work individually, spontaneous failiure or disassembly should be less catastrophic than a fully integrated system

**Progessivity**

**Conclusion**